# Actions Platform

## Overview

The Unified Actions Platform is a solution designed to handle fetching of actions by codewords. Built with FastAPI and React with TypeScript, this platform has a backend API and a web interface.

### Features

- **REST API**: Developed using FastAPI, the backend exposes endpoints for fetching actions. It supports querying actions by codeword and retrieving codewords based on action ids.
- **Web UI**: A modern, responsive web interface built with React and TypeScript. It provides a UI for submitting codewords or action ids and displays the results.


## Getting Started

To get the platform up and running on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Waseem-Kara/service.actions.git

2. **Run start_projects.bat**:
You can run this bat file which will run both projects or proceed with step 3 and 4 for manual startup.

3. **Run the FastAPI backend**:
    ```bash
    cd actions_api
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python app\main.py

4. **Launch the React frontend**:
    ```bash
    cd ui/actions-ui
    npm install
    npm start

## Accessing the API

Once the FastAPI backend server is up and running, you can explore and test the API endpoints through its autogenerated documentation:

- **Swagger UI**: Visit [http://localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs) for the Swagger UI interface, which allows you to execute API calls directly from the browser.
- **ReDoc**: For an alternative documentation format, check out [http://localhost:3000/redoc](http://localhost:3000/redoc), which provides a more readable overview of the available endpoints.

## Viewing the Web UI

The web UI, developed with React and TypeScript. After starting the React development server, you can access the web UI at:

- [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).

## API Improvements

- **Data Storage**:
  - Store CSV files in Blob Storage or Cosmos DB for efficient no SQL data management.

- **Error Handling**:
  - Implement global error handling to catch and manage exceptions systematically.

- **Domain Layer**:
  - Introduce a domain layer to encapsulate business logic for complex operations like insertions and updates.

- **Containerization**:
  - Add Docker support to ensure consistency across different environments and provide easier deployment.

- **Testing**:
  - Increase test coverage to ensure reliability and reduce bugs.

- **Security**:
  - Implement authentication and permission controls to safeguard access to the API.

## UI Improvements

- **Code Organization**:
  - Utilize hooks for reusability and to declutter `App.tsx` by extracting reusable code.

- **Error Handling**:
  - Enhance error handling on the UI to display user-friendly messages, improving the overall user experience.

- **User Experience (UX)**:
  - Focus on improving the UX to make the interface more intuitive and engaging for users.
